# Bacterial-enrichment
  Development of physical and sequence bacteria enrichment methods for the detection of species and strain-level variations in SCTLD-associated bacteria
    This project aims to better understand the role of bacteria in stony coral tissue loss disease (SCTLD). While there have been many studies that used 16S rRNA gene data to characterize the bacteria present in this disease these studies can not tell us the potential function of the bacteria and are limited in providing taxonomica and phylogenetic information. To obtain this information shotgun metagenomics needs to be conducted. But this technology is hindered in coral research because the majority of data sequenced is from the coral host and the symbiotic algae – limiting the data on the microbial community. To combat this limitation, we proposed to test and develop methods that enrich bacteria in corals to better characterize the bacteria community associated with the disease. In all, we tested enrichment by (1) fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) (2)  5 and 0.1µm  size fractionation, (3) 0.02 µm size fraction (4) HostZERO™ (bacteria enrichment kit), (5) 2 mm, and (6) 0.5 and 1 mm bead beating sizes for DNA extractions, and (7) selective long-read sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT). The results for FACs, and HostZERO™ did not yield sufficient DNA for sequencing. The 0.1-5 µm size fractionation, and selective long-read sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) did not result in bacteria sequence enrichment. Finally, sequence data is pending from methods: 0.02 µm size fractions, and the 2mm, and 0.5/1mm bead beating sizes for DNA extractions. This project provides guidelines for enriching bacteria in coral samples for shotgun metagenomics. The data generated through these methods can provide a better insight into the role of bacteria in SCTLD.
    
    
